>> Francesca Sadikin: So we've covered
how to prepare yourself to succeed as
a software engineer.
Now let's build on all that hard work
by focusing on opportunities now.
Like I mentioned in the beginning of
this course, when people see this quote,
luck is where opportunity
meets preparation.
Think people focus on
the preparation part, right?
Thinking that opportunities
are just things that happen and
all of our hard work takes
advantage of the opportunity.
But I believe that
opportunities like preparation
should also be paid attention to.
But first you might be wondering why are
opportunities even important in summary,
opportunities allow you
to showcase your skills.
What you learn from these experiences
contributes to your growth as an engineer.
You can say it another way, you have to
show don't tell an engineer might claim
they have the skills of
a higher level engineer.
But people will not believe you
unless they can see that you
have experienced it in some way.
It's the proof through experience that
truly convinces others of the abilities.
>> Francesca Sadikin: So we now
understand why opportunities matter.
What if I told you, you can actually
increase your own opportunities.
That would mean that between
preparation and opportunities,
you're creating your own luck, which
means you can foster your own success.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Just a little side
note, to be clear, you can completely grow
your career without intentionally
fostering opportunities.
It is just going to be
most likely a slower path.
So intentionally fostering opportunities
just helps you grow faster.
>> Francesca Sadikin: All right, so,
how do you increase opportunities.
This is a question prompt for
the audience.
>> Francesca Sadikin: How do
you increase opportunities?
Go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: You can leverage on them,
on other senior developers
knowledge of collaboration.
You leverage on the people you
collaborate with their skills.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes,
leverage their skills, okay.
How do you how do you get more
opportunities to come your way?
>> Speaker 3: Network.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Networking,
yes okay.
>> Speaker 3: Deliver on time, I always
say if somebody gives you a responsibility
and you meet that responsibility time and
time again,
you're gonna build this
incredible amount of trust.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: And as you build that trust
with whether it's through
your existing job or
previous jobs or
side jobs or whatever it is.
If you become the person that's
reliable and trustworthy,
I feel like that carries out word.
Because when somebody is, hey,
do you know of a great X, whatever it is,
in this case, developer, you're the name
that's always brought to the table.
Because you're the one that delivers and
communicates well along the way.
>> Speaker 2: Yes, well, you can teach
this course [LAUGH] cuz that is my answer.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes, so
some people also said networking, but
networking is a little too abstract.
The real answer is what
you just said right now.
It's about relationships of
trust with those around you.
That is how you increase opportunities.
So given this answer,
you might be wondering,
why are we focusing on relationships in
a software engineering course, right?
And I used to think the same way,
when I was younger, I just thought that
I just needed to work really hard,
deliver really good quality code.
I don't have to care about networking,
relationships,
building good rapport with people.
And somehow I would still be
able to grow as an engineer.
But over time, I learned that
opportunities don't just come from
the quality of your technical skills, they
come from the relationships you build.
So let me explain through
a story about John.
John is an incredibly talented engineer
who was known for his dedication and
hard work.
He would always arrive early,
leave late, and
consistently deliver
really good quality code.
On the surface,
John was the ideal engineer.
But despite his skills and
how hard he worked,
he never seemed to get the big projects
that lead to career growth, why?
Because John didn't get along with his
manager, he always wanted to be right.
He always insisted on
doing things his way,
even when the team had already
made a different decision.
So for example, during a project to
build a calculator, the team agreed
on one solution but he ignored it,
completely implemented his own.
Incidents like these, eventually broke
down his relationships with his manager,
who began to question John's ability
to collaborate and follow directions.
And over time,
if you started to see that, right?
Cuz John started to find himself
being assigned smaller and
smaller projects being assigned
away from the big projects.
He was being sidelined,
not because he wasn't talented, but
because his manager
just did not trust him.
And it wasn't just the manager, the other
teammates started to feel the same way.
John's behavior, though subtle,
signaled to everybody.
That he could not be relied on for
the big collaborative projects
that require trust and teamwork.
It's important to note that John wasn't
intentionally trying to be difficult,
that his actions created an environment
where people didn't wanna work with him.
They felt that working with John would
mean more problems and more conflict,
which ultimately led to fewer and
fewer opportunities for John.
John's story illustrates a crucial point.
You can be an amazing coder,
but if you don't build trust
with the people around you.
You won't be given the opportunities
that lead to career growth.
Just remember that as projects become
larger and more complex, they require more
collaboration because there's just so many
more people that needs to be involved.
And if you're not someone who can be
trusted to work well with others,
you're gonna find yourself
stuck on the sidelines,
possibly facing career stagnation.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: A few folks online chimed
in and said, ask for opportunities.
>> Speaker 2: If you are at work, you
can ask for tickets without waiting for
them to be given to you.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes, that's another
great way to also slowly expand your
responsibilities.
Yes, so you might be thinking,
I'm not like John,
I'm not aggressive or arrogant.
But even small actions,
what we might call microaggressions or
trust busters can have
a similar impact over time.
Maybe you cut people off in meetings, or
you keep mispronouncing someone's name,
or you're quick to dismiss others' ideas.
These behaviors, even if unintentional,
can erode trust over time and
when trust starts to slip.
So the opportunities that you see.
So it's about fostering
a culture where everybody wins,
this means creating a safe environment
where no one is thrown under the bus and
everyone's brought to
the finish line together.
By avoiding judging, blaming or shaming,
you also contribute to this team
dynamic that builds trust, and
people can sense that, and
they'll want to work with you so.
That's the end of this first story,
[LAUGH] what do you guys think?
Do you relate or do you disagree?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
if I can use mine as a scenario,
I just finished with my supervisor.
I'm leading a project and
he's trying to tell me,
if you have an idea as a project lead,
try to keep it and
let others throw their ideas in first,
so that the part of the whole thing.
So I don't place my ideas first
eventually, I might amend it or
probably use my own idea, but I shouldn't
always come with my idea first.
I should let them feel
part of the whole thing.
So,
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah,
>> Speaker 2: I can [CROSSTALK]
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes, you're creating
space for others to join in, right?
Yes, so they feel comfortable.
Okay, was this story obvious?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: A few comments from online,
trust is as fragile as
a plain sheet of paper.
Once the paper is crumpled up,
it can never be the same again.
I use this analogy to reduce
toxicity in the teams I work with.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes.
Once you have that trust, it is very, once
you lose it, it's harder to build it back.
Yes.
>> Speaker 3: And then Zach says, 100%
agree that you can be a great coder but
a bad software engineer.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes, and
it will limit your opportunities
in your career eventually.